
# HPCC : 9.12.0 Platform Release Announcement

We are excited to introduce the next generation of the HPCC Systems® Platform. The latest release, version 9.12.0, brings a host of enhancements designed to lower cloud costs, boost performance, and elevate the overall user experience.

The [Release Notes](https://hpccsystems.com/download/release-notes/) page contains a complete list of changes in this release, but here are a few noteworthy features:

## Sasha Debug Plane Housekeeping

Sasha now provides a maintenance service in containerized environments that automatically manages files and directories on the debug plane using a configured retention period. This clears the disk space used by post-mortem and other files on the debug plane. This service executes on a schedule and creates a log entry summarizing deleted files and/or directories. See [Sasha Debug Plane Housekeeping](https://hpcc-systems.github.io/HPCC-Platform/dali/sasha/sasha.html) for details.

## Sasha Interface in ECL Watch

ECL Watch now supports some Sasha functionality, such as archiving and restoring ECL and DFU workunits. This is particularly useful in containerized deployments where the Sasha command line interface is not an option.
**Note:** On secured systems, this feature is restricted to administrators only.

## XREF Interface in ECL Watch

ECL Watch now provides an interface for performing XREF tasks. On secured systems, only administrators have access to this feature.
**Note:** This should be considered a Technical Preview; you should exercise caution when using it.

## New Event Recording and Analysis

The ability to record and analyze index and Dali requests from Roxie at startup and while it is running a set of queries. In addition, a command-line tool has been created to access event data.
See [HPCC-33642](https://hpccsystems.atlassian.net/browse/HPCC-33642) for details.

## New String Functions

Four new functions were added to the String Library in the ECL Standard Library. These functions compare two strings to find a common prefix or common suffix.

- Std.Str.CommonPrefix
- Std.Str.CommonSuffix
- Std.Uni.CommonPrefix
- Std.Uni.CommonSuffix

See [HPCC-33933](https://hpccsystems.atlassian.net/browse/HPCC-33933) for more details.

## ARM support

The OSX client tools now support ARM microprocessor architecture.

## Bloom Filter improvements

The default BLOOM filter generation has been enhanced. See [HPCC-33869](https://hpccsystems.atlassian.net/browse/HPCC-33869) for more details.
