# HPCC : 9.8 Platform Release Announcement

We're pleased to announce the next generation of the HPCC Systems® Platform. This exciting new release, version 9.8.0, takes everything you loved about the platform and elevates it to a new level.

## Highlights

- **New Regex Libraries**
  Beginning with version 9.8, the HPCC Systems platform uses a new third-party library to support regular expression operations in the platform. PCRE2 will replace both Boost::regex and ICU in regular expression pattern parsing, compilation, and substring replacement.
  This change brings more consistency to how regex works within ECL, better support for UTF-8 data and overall better performance.
  For more details, see: [Changes to Regex Support in HPCC Systems 9.8.0](https://hpccsystems.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/hpcc/pages/64225306)

- **LDAP Default File Scope Permission Caching Fix**
  This change can affect LDAP-enabled systems.
  For details, see: [Change in LDAP Support](https://hpccsystems.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/hpcc/pages/64061469/HPCC+Systems+9.8.x+Releases+Advance+Notice#Change-in-LDAP-Support)

- **Interactive ECL**
  To augment the learning experience, many of the ECL code examples on the ECL Language Reference web pages are now interactive.
  You can submit example code to a publicly available HPCC Systems® platform. When submitted, it opens the ECL Watch Playground in a new tab and allows you to execute the ECL on that cluster.
  You can also modify the code before submitting and see the results of the modified code.
  > ⚠️ Take care not to submit code containing proprietary algorithms or Personally Identifiable Information (PII).

- **Syntax Check in the ECL Watch Playground**
  The ECL Watch Playground now has a **Syntax** button which allows you to check syntax before submitting the code.
  - If the code passes the check, a green checkmark is displayed.
  - If it fails, the details of any errors are displayed.

- **Improved Performance**
  Numerous "under the covers" improvements to increase performance.

- **Tighter Security**
  Many improvements made in the area of security.

Whether you're a seasoned user or just starting out, version 9.8.0 empowers you to achieve more than ever before.

See the comprehensive list of changes here: [Release Notes](https://hpccsystems.com/download/release-notes/)
